[documentation]: Review Iroha on bare metal chapter (#69)
hyperledger/iroha-2-docs: src/guide/advanced/running-iroha-on-bare-metal.md

# Iroha on bare metal

Having read most of the
[configuration and management](./../configure/intro.md) section, you are
now prepared to start Iroha in a more advanced mode.

What we are going to do is replicate the setup that we have in
`docker compose` and run Iroha directly, without going through the
intermediary of containers. Running Iroha on bare metal involves
manipulating files and/or environment variables.

> File-based approach is the easiest to get right, but using environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file-based approach is the easiest to get right. Using environment
```

variables can offer a better user experience if done right, but is more
error-prone, particularly for exotic systems.

## Prerequisites

First of all, we should note that we have only built the Iroha client so
far in this tutorial. We need to build the peer software to run Iroha on
bare metal.

::: info

> Iroha in `debug` mode contains many more debug-oriented features and very

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building in `debug` mode retains much more information and optimises the binary to a far lesser extent. 
```

> few compiler optimisations. A `debug` build is faster to compile, but if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As such, we advise you to build iroha in `debug` mode for testing: it's faster and it's easier for you to find problems and fix them. However, if
```

you intend to actually deploy Iroha, you should build it in `--release`
mode.

:::

- To build the peer software in `debug` mode, run:

  ```kotlin
  cargo build -p iroha
  ```

> - To build the peer software in `--release` mode, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To build the peer software in `release` mode, run:
```

  ```kotlin
  cargo build -p iroha --release
  ```

>   This will take significantly longer to compile than `debug` mode, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `release` mode binary will take significantly longer to compile. It does more work so
```

Author: made a slightly different change

>   This will take significantly longer to compile than `debug` mode, but
>   should produce both a smaller and faster binary, suitable for deployment

Author: ```suggestion
  The `release` mode binary takes significantly longer to compile than `debug` mode, but
  the result is a smaller and faster binary, suitable for deployment
```

  in the actual blockchains.

## Setup

### Setup: Environment variables

We want to make sure that we have the right configuration.

There are different ways to do this. You can copy the contents of the
`~/Git/iroha/configs/peer/` into a new directory, or, alternatively, just
run all commands from that directory:

```bash
cd ~/Git/iroha/configs/peer
```

> A third option is to specify the full path to the configuration in an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third option is to specify the full path to the configuration file in an
```

executable.

It's a good idea to make these instructions permanent, which you can do by
adding the environment variables to your startup shell.

::: details Save the instructions to the startup shell

On older Linux systems, you copy and paste the instructions (without the
`cd ~`) to `~/.bashrc`. On Mac OS X 10.6 and later, as well as some Linux
systems, you want to add the same lines to `~/.zshrc`.

Copy these instructions to the specified files (replace `debug` with
`release` when you're ready to deploy):

```bash
export IROHA2_GENESIS_PATH="$(pwd)/Git/iroha/configs/peer/genesis.json"
export IROHA2_CONFIG_PATH="$(pwd)/Git/iroha/configs/peer/config.json"
export PATH="$PATH:$(pwd)/Git/iroha/target/debug"
```

:::

::: tip

This process is almost universally unreliable and messy, and it's likely
that your system is special in that it breaks some of our assumptions.

If the above optional steps didn't work for you, you can keep working in
the `~/Git/iroha/configs/peer/` folder, and run Iroha via
`~/Git/iroha/target/debug/iroha`.

This makes the command-line a little harder to read, which is why we
recommend setting up your environment first.

:::

::: info Note

> The tutorial assumes that you're running either Linux, Mac OS X, or Windows

Reviewer: Please revert back. It's rendered more correctly with the proper quotation mark symbol.

Author: done
